Difference between Compiler and Interpreter ?

Compiler 

1) A compiler translates the entire source code in a single run
2) It consumes less time, it is faster than an interpreter
3) It is more efficient.
4) CPU utilization is more.
5) Both syntactic and semantic errors can be checked.


Interpreter

1) An interpreter translates the entire source code line by line.
2) It consumes much more time than the compiler, it is slower than compiler.
3) It is less efficient.
4) CPU utilization is less as compared to the compiler.
5) Only syntactic errors are checked.

Q2 what is the difference between JDK , JRE and JVM?

JDK
Java Development Kit is a kit that provides the environment to develop and execute the java program. 
It includes two things :

--->Development tool 
--->JRE 

JRE 
Java Runtime Environment is an installation package that provides an environment to only run the java program
onto the machine .JRE is used by only those who want to run java program.

JVM 
Java Virtual Machine is very important part for both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
whatever java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line, 
hence it is also known as an interpreter.


Q3.How many types of memory areas are allocated by JVM?

The memory in the JVM is divided into 5 different parts: 

Class(Method) Area
Heap
Stack
Program Counter Register
Native Method Stack

1. Class (Method) Area (.class file / static data)
The class method area is the memory block that stores the class code, variable code(static variable, runtime constant), method code, 
and the constructor of a Java program. (Here method means the function which is written inside the class).
 It stores class-level data of every class such as the runtime constant pool, field and method data, the code for methods.

2. Heap (Instance variable/Object data)
The Heap area is the memory block where objects are created or objects are stored.
 Heap memory allocates memory for class interfaces and arrays (an array is an object).
 It is used to allocate memory to objects at run time

3. Stack (local variable)
Each thread has a private JVM stack, created at the same time as the thread.
 It is used to store data and partial results which will be needed while returning value for method and performing dynamic linking.

Java Stack stores frames and a new frame is created each time at every invocation of the method.
 A frame is destroyed when its method invocation completes

4. Program Counter Register: (address of next instruction which needs to be executed)
Each JVM thread that carries out the task of a specific method has a program counter register associated with it. 
The non-native method has a PC that stores the address of the available JVM instruction whereas, in a native method, the value of the program counter 
is undefined. PC register is capable of storing the return address or a native pointer on some specific platform.

5. Native method Stacks: (code of other language which would be required for java)
Also called C stacks, native method stacks are not written in Java language.
 This memory is allocated for each thread when it’s created And it can be of a fixed or dynamic nature.
 
 
 
 What is JIT compiler?
 
  It is used to increase the efficiency of an interpreter. It compiles the entire bytecode and changes it to native code so
  whenever the interpreter sees repeated method calls, 
  JIT provides direct native code for that part so re-interpretation is not required, thus efficiency is improved.
 
 The JIT or Just-In-Time compiler is an essential part of the JRE (Java Runtime Environment),
 that is responsible for performance optimization of java based applications during run time.
 
 In order to improve performance, JIT compilers interact with the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) at run time and compile suitable bytecode sequences 
 into native machine code. While using a JIT compiler, the hardware is able to execute the native code, 
 as compared to having the JVM interpret the same sequence of bytecode repeatedly.



Q5.What are the various access specifiers in Java? 

There are four types of Java access modifiers:

1) Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.

2) Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. 
If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.

3) Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. 
If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.

4) Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class,
 within the package and outside the package.
 
 
 Q6.What is a compiler in Java?

-->A compiler is a translator that converts the high-level language into the machine language.

-->High-level language is written by a developer and machine language can be understood by the processor.

-->Compiler is used to show errors to the programmer.

-->The main purpose of compiler is to change the code written in one language without changing the meaning of the program.

-->When you execute a program which is written in HLL programming language then it executes into two parts.

-->In the first part, the source program compiled and translated into the object program (low level language).

-->In the second part, object program translated into the target program through the assembler.


Q7.Explain the types of variables in Java?

There are three types of variables in Java:

1) Local Variable
A variable declared inside the body of the method is called local variable. You can use this variable only within
 that method and the other methods in the class aren't even aware that the variable exists.

A local variable cannot be defined with "static" keyword.

2) Instance Variable
A variable declared inside the class but outside the body of the method, is called an instance variable. It is not declared as static.

It is called an instance variable because its value is instance-specific and is not shared among instances.

3) Static variable
A variable that is declared as static is called a static variable. It cannot be local. You can create a single copy of the static variable
 and share it among all the instances of the class.
 Memory allocation for static variables happens only once when the class is loaded in the memory.
 
 
 Q8.What are the Datatypes in Java?
 
 Data types specify the different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable. There are two types of data types in Java:

Primitive data types: The primitive data types include boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.

Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.


Q9.What are the identifiers in java?

Identifiers in Java are symbolic names used for identification. They can be a class name, variable name, method name, package name, constant name, and more. However,
 In Java, There are some reserved words that can not be used as an identifier.
 
 Example :
 public class HelloJava {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
        System.out.println("Hello JavaTpoint");  
    }  
}  


From the above example, we have the following Java identifiers:

HelloJava (Class name)
main (main method)
String (Predefined Class name)
args (String variables)
System (Predefined class)
out (Variable name)
println (method)



Q10.Explain the architecture of JVM 

1) Method area: In the method area, all class level information like class name, immediate parent class name, 
methods and variables information etc. are stored, including static variables. There is only one method area per JVM, and it is a shared resource. 
From java 8, static variables are now stored in Heap area.

2) Heap area: Information of all objects is stored in the heap area. There is also one Heap Area per JVM. It is also a shared resource.

3) Stack area: For every thread, JVM creates one run-time stack which is stored here. Every block of this stack is called activation 
record/stack frame which stores methods calls. All local variables of that method are stored in their corresponding frame.
 After a thread terminates, its run-time stack will be destroyed by JVM. It is not a shared resource.
 
4) PC Registers: Store address of current execution instruction of a thread. Obviously, each thread has separate PC Registers.
Native method stacks: For every thread, a separate native stack is created. It stores native method information




